# Deployments.

replica sets are encapsulated in a deployment. 

definition yaml

```yaml
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata: 
        name: myapp-depl
        labels: 
            app: myapp
    spec: 
        template: 
            metadata: 
                name: my-app-pod
                labels: 
                    app: myapp
            spec: 
                containers: 
                    - name: my-app-container
                      image: nginx
        replicas: 3
        selector: 
            matchLabels:
                app: myapp
```
```
    > kubectl create deployment -f my-app-deployment.yaml
    > kubectl get deployment
    > kubectl get replicaset
        a new replicaset is created with its name prefixed by the deployment name 
    > kubectl get pods
        pods are created too now, based on the desired number
```

## lifecycle / stages of a deployment 

### progressing 
    kubernetes marks a Deployment as progressing when one of the following tasks is performed:

        The Deployment creates a new ReplicaSet.
        The Deployment is scaling up its newest ReplicaSet.
        The Deployment is scaling down its older ReplicaSet(s).
        New Pods become ready or available (ready for at least MinReadySeconds).

    When the rollout becomes “progressing”, the Deployment controller adds a condition with the following attributes to the Deployment's .status.conditions:

        type: Progressing
        status: "True"
        reason: NewReplicaSetCreated | reason: FoundNewReplicaSet | reason: ReplicaSetUpdated

    You can monitor the progress for a Deployment by using kubectl rollout status

### completed
    Kubernetes marks a Deployment as complete when it has the following characteristics:

    All of the replicas associated with the Deployment have been updated to the latest version you've specified, meaning any updates you've requested have been completed.
    All of the replicas associated with the Deployment are available.
    No old replicas for the Deployment are running.

    When the rollout becomes “complete”, the Deployment controller sets a condition with the following attributes to the Deployment's .status.conditions:

        type: Progressing
        status: "True"
        reason: NewReplicaSetAvailable

    This Progressing condition will retain a status value of "True" until a new rollout is initiated. The condition holds even when availability of replicas changes (which does instead affect the Available condition).

    You can check if a Deployment has completed by using kubectl rollout status. If the rollout completed successfully, kubectl rollout status returns a zero exit code.

        kubectl rollout status deployment/nginx-deployment

    The output is similar to this:

        Waiting for rollout to finish: 2 of 3 updated replicas are available...
        deployment "nginx-deployment" successfully rolled out

    and the exit status from kubectl rollout is 0 (success):

        echo $?

        0

### failed

Your Deployment may get stuck trying to deploy its newest ReplicaSet without ever completing. This can occur due to some of the following factors:

    Insufficient quota
    Readiness probe failures
    Image pull errors
    Insufficient permissions
    Limit ranges
    Application runtime misconfiguration

One way you can detect this condition is to specify a deadline parameter in your Deployment spec: (.spec.progressDeadlineSeconds). .spec.progressDeadlineSeconds denotes the number of seconds the Deployment controller waits before indicating (in the Deployment status) that the Deployment progress has stalled.

The following kubectl command sets the spec with progressDeadlineSeconds to make the controller report lack of progress of a rollout for a Deployment after 10 minutes:

    kubectl patch deployment/nginx-deployment -p '{"spec":{"progressDeadlineSeconds":600}}'

The output is similar to this:

    deployment.apps/nginx-deployment patched

Once the deadline has been exceeded, the Deployment controller adds a DeploymentCondition with the following attributes to the Deployment's .status.conditions:

    type: Progressing
    status: "False"
    reason: ProgressDeadlineExceeded

This condition can also fail early and is then set to status value of "False" due to reasons as ReplicaSetCreateError. Also, the deadline is not taken into account anymore once the Deployment rollout completes.

See the Kubernetes API conventions for more information on status conditions.
Note: Kubernetes takes no action on a stalled Deployment other than to report a status condition with reason: ProgressDeadlineExceeded. Higher level orchestrators can take advantage of it and act accordingly, for example, rollback the Deployment to its previous version.
Note: If you pause a Deployment rollout, Kubernetes does not check progress against your specified deadline. You can safely pause a Deployment rollout in the middle of a rollout and resume without triggering the condition for exceeding the deadline.

You may experience transient errors with your Deployments, either due to a low timeout that you have set or due to any other kind of error that can be treated as transient. For example, let's suppose you have insufficient quota. If you describe the Deployment you will notice the following section:

kubectl describe deployment nginx-deployment

The output is similar to this:

<...>
Conditions:
  Type            Status  Reason
  ----            ------  ------
  Available       True    MinimumReplicasAvailable
  Progressing     True    ReplicaSetUpdated
  ReplicaFailure  True    FailedCreate
<...>

If you run kubectl get deployment nginx-deployment -o yaml, the Deployment status is similar to this:

status:
  availableReplicas: 2
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: 2016-10-04T12:25:39Z
    lastUpdateTime: 2016-10-04T12:25:39Z
    message: Replica set "nginx-deployment-4262182780" is progressing.
    reason: ReplicaSetUpdated
    status: "True"
    type: Progressing
  - lastTransitionTime: 2016-10-04T12:25:42Z
    lastUpdateTime: 2016-10-04T12:25:42Z
    message: Deployment has minimum availability.
    reason: MinimumReplicasAvailable
    status: "True"
    type: Available
  - lastTransitionTime: 2016-10-04T12:25:39Z
    lastUpdateTime: 2016-10-04T12:25:39Z
    message: 'Error creating: pods "nginx-deployment-4262182780-" is forbidden: exceeded quota:
      object-counts, requested: pods=1, used: pods=3, limited: pods=2'
    reason: FailedCreate
    status: "True"
    type: ReplicaFailure
  observedGeneration: 3
  replicas: 2
  unavailableReplicas: 2

Eventually, once the Deployment progress deadline is exceeded, Kubernetes updates the status and the reason for the Progressing condition:

Conditions:
  Type            Status  Reason
  ----            ------  ------
  Available       True    MinimumReplicasAvailable
  Progressing     False   ProgressDeadlineExceeded
  ReplicaFailure  True    FailedCreate

You can address an issue of insufficient quota by scaling down your Deployment, by scaling down other controllers you may be running, or by increasing quota in your namespace. If you satisfy the quota conditions and the Deployment controller then completes the Deployment rollout, you'll see the Deployment's status update with a successful condition (status: "True" and reason: NewReplicaSetAvailable).

Conditions:
  Type          Status  Reason
  ----          ------  ------
  Available     True    MinimumReplicasAvailable
  Progressing   True    NewReplicaSetAvailable

type: Available with status: "True" means that your Deployment has minimum availability. Minimum availability is dictated by the parameters specified in the deployment strategy. type: Progressing with status: "True" means that your Deployment is either in the middle of a rollout and it is progressing or that it has successfully completed its progress and the minimum required new replicas are available (see the Reason of the condition for the particulars - in our case reason: NewReplicaSetAvailable means that the Deployment is complete).

You can check if a Deployment has failed to progress by using kubectl rollout status. kubectl rollout status returns a non-zero exit code if the Deployment has exceeded the progression deadline.

    kubectl rollout status deployment/nginx-deployment

The output is similar to this:

    Waiting for rollout to finish: 2 out of 3 new replicas have been updated...
    error: deployment "nginx" exceeded its progress deadline

and the exit status from kubectl rollout is 1 (indicating an error):

    echo $?

    1
