# 2. understanding core concepts

## aims to 
* understand how to manage k8s objects
    - imperative, declarative approach to create objects
    - kubectl run for pods
    - kubectl create for other objects
    - kubectl edit to work with live objects
    - kubectl delete
* know how to interact with pods
    - kubectl get 
    - kubectl describe
    - pod lifecycle
    - kubectl logs
    - kubectl exec for container environment examination
* advanced pod configuration options
    - create manifest yaml and then edit it for quick 
    - k8s documentation for creating diff parameters

## exercise

for speed, i've got an alias k=kubectl

1. create new pod named nginx running the image nginx:1.17.10. Expose the container port 80. the pod should live in the namespace ckad. 
```
    > k create namespace ckad
    > k get all -n ckad -o wide
    > k run nginx --image=nginx:1.17.10 --port=80 -n ckad
    > k get all -n ckad -o wide
```

2. get details of the pod including IP
```
    > k get all -n ckad -o wide
```

3. create temporary pod that uses busybox image to execute a wget command inside of the container. the wget command should access the endpoint exposed the nginx container. you should see the html response body rendered in the terminal 
```
    > k run temp-pod --image=busybox --restart=Never --rm -n ckad -it -- wget -O- 10.244.0.52:80
```
    here busybox is not a server, so it does not wait around to serve any requests. 
    so once my wget is executed and index.html is saved, it crashes
    k8s tries to restart it and it crashes again, and after many such, it terminates in a CrashLoopBackOff
    hence, --restart=Never

4. get logs of the nginx container
```
    > k logs nginx -n ckad
    10.244.0.53 - - [06/Aug/2023:04:21:28 +0000] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 612 "-" "Wget" "-"
    10.244.0.54 - - [06/Aug/2023:04:21:49 +0000] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 612 "-" "Wget" "-"
```

5. add env variables DB_URL=postgresql://mydb:5432 and DB_USERNAME=admin to the container of the nginx pod. 

when we edit the pod specs other than the below, it is considered invalid by k8s, so best we can do is delete the pod and recreate it.

"# * spec: Forbidden: pod updates may not change fields other than `spec.containers[*].image`, `spec.initContainers[*].image`, `spec.activeDeadlineSeconds`, `spec.tolerations` (only additions to existing tolerations) or `spec.terminationGracePeriodSeconds` (allow it to be set to 1 if it was previously negative)"
```
    > k delete pod nginx -n ckad
    > k run nginx --image=nginx:1.17.10 --port=80 --env="DB_URL=postgresql://mydb:5432" --env="DB_USERNAME=admin" -n ckad
    > k exec nginx -n ckad --printenv
```
can also set the default editor to VSCODE
powershell
    > $env:KUBE_EDITOR="code --w"

then dry run=client, to create yaml, edit yaml on vscode, then create -f using the yaml
```
    > k edit nginx -n ckad
```
   
6. open a shell for nginx container and inspect contents of the current directory ls -l
```
    > k exec nginx -n ckad -it -- /bin/sh
    # ls -l
```

7. create yaml manifest for a pod named loop that runs the busybox image in a container. The container should run the following command: 
    for i in {1..10}; do echo "Welcome $i times"; done
create the pod from the yaml manifest.
check status of the pod. 
```
    > k run loop --image=busybox --restart=Never --dry-run=client -o yaml > loop.yaml -- /bin/sh -c "for i in {1..10}; do echo 'Welcome $i times'; done"
    > code loop.yaml 
    > k create -f loop.yaml -n ckad
    pod/loop created
    >PS C:\Users\hafil> k get pods -n ckad
    loop    0/1     Completed   0          14s
```

8. edit the pod names loop. change the command to run in an endless loop. each iteration should echo the current date.
```
    > k delete pod loop -n ckad 
    > k run loop --image=busybox --restart=Never --dry-run=client -o yaml > loop.yaml -- /bin/sh -c "while true; do echo $(date); done"
    > k create -f loop.yaml -n ckad
    > k get pods -n ckad
    loop    1/1     Running   0          3m43s
    > k logs loop -n ckad
```

9. inspect events and status of the pod loop
```
    > k get events -n ckad
    > k get pods -n ckad
    loop    1/1     Running   0          3m43s
```

10. delete namespace ckad and its pods.
```
    > k delete namespace ckad
```



