# 5. observability

1. define a pod named *web-server* with the nginx in a yaml manifest. expose the container port 80. do not create the pod yet

    k run web-server --image=nginx --dry-run=client --port=80 -o yaml > web-server.yaml

2. for the container, declare a startup probe of type httpGet. Verify that the root context endpoint can be called. Use the default configuration for the probe. 

---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
    creationTimestamp: null
    labels:
        run: web-server
    name: web-server
    spec:
    containers:
    - image: nginx
        name: web-server
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          name : port-web-server
        resources: {}
        startupProbe:
        httpGet:
            path: /
            port : port-web-server
    dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
    restartPolicy: Always
    status: {}
---

3. for the container, declare a readiness probe of type httpGet. Verify that the root context endpoint can be called. wait 5 seconds before checking for the first time. 

---
    ...
    readinessProbe:
      httpGet:
        path: /
        port : port-web-server
      initialDelaySeconds: 5
    ...
---

4. for the container, declare a liveness probe of type httpGet. Verify that the root context endpoint can be called. wait 10 seconds before checking for the first time. the probe should run the check every 30 seconds. 

---
    ...
    livenessProbe:
      httpGet:
        path: /
        port : port-web-server
      initialDelaySeconds: 10
      periodSeconds: 30
    ...
---

5. create the pod and follow the lifecycle phases of the pod during the process 

---
    k create -f web-server.yaml
    
    k get pod

    k describe pod web-server
---

6. inspect the runtime details of the probes of the pod. 

---
    k describe pod web-server

        State:          Running
        Started:      Thu, 17 Aug 2023 09:01:43 -0400
        Ready:          True
        Restart Count:  0
        Liveness:       http-get http://:port-web-server/ delay=10s timeout=1s period=30s #success=1 #failure=3
        Readiness:      http-get http://:port-web-server/ delay=5s timeout=1s period=10s #success=1 #failure=3
        Startup:        http-get http://:port-web-server/ delay=0s timeout=1s period=10s #success=1 #failure=3
---

7. retrieve the metrics of the pod from the metrics server

---
    k top pod web-server
---

8. create a pod names custom-cmd with the image busybox. the container should run the command top-analyzer wit the command line flag --all

---
    k run custom-cmd --image=busybox --restart=Never -- /bin/sh -c "top-analyzer --all"
---

9. inspect the status. how would you further troubleshoot the pod to identidy the root cause of the failure

---
    k logs custom-cmd
    /bin/sh: top-analyzer: not found
---
    
