# resource requests and limits in k8s

* limits : max allowed resource utilization
* requests : minimum amount requested by the container

Units of measurement : 
<https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#resource-units-in-kubernetes> take note of the units here. m is diff from M for memory.
400m=0.4 bytes
400M=400 Megabytes

### defining the resource request at the pod spec

---
    # pod.yaml
    ...
    spec: 
        containers:
            - name: simple-app
              image: nginx
              resources:
                requests:
                    memory: "4Gi"
                    cpu: 2
                limits: 
                    memory: "8Gi"
                    cpu: 2
    ...
---
requests and limits are set for each container within a pod, and for multi container pods, diff requests and limits can be set.

when scheduler gets request to create this pod, it looks for a node that has these resources available and places this pod on that node, if no resources available, wait.

**exceed limits**
* memory - if a pod is constantly requesting more memoery over its limit, TERMINATE, OOM (out of memory)
* cpu - if a pod is constantly trying to use more cpu than its limit, THROTTLE to make sure it does not exceed limit

**default behaviour**

there are no resource limitation by default on kubernetes, and can quickly cause $$$ damage

* cpu : 
    - no requests, no limits : not ideal, scale without control. NOT ALL pods are guaranteed cpu 
    - no requests, limits are set : requests assumes the value of limits
    - requests are set, limits are set : pod is guaranteed the requests, and the total use is guaranteed to not cross limits, one drawback, hard limit on the pod cpu makes it non flexible to use available cpu unused by other pods.
    - request are set, no limits : ALL pods are guaranteed the requests cpu, but they dont have limits. so if resources are full and one of the pods (who was guaranteed cpu) needs cpu, THROTTLE happens to make cpu available

* memory : 
    - no requests, no limits : not ideal, scale without control. NOT ALL pods are guaranteed memory 
    - no requests, limits are set : requests assumes the value of limits
    - requests are set, limits are set : pod is guaranteed the requests, and the total use is guaranteed to not cross limits, one drawback, hard limit on the pod memory makes it non flexible to use available memory unused by other pods.
    - request are set, no limits : ALL pods are guaranteed the requests mem, but they dont have limits. so if resources are full and one of the pods (who was guaranteed memory) needs memory, the pod is TERMINATE with OOM.
