# readiness probe

readiness probe is to test whether an app inside a container is ready to accept traffic

app inside the container may have started up, but may need sometime before it can accept incoming traffic

sometimes the container is ready
but the app takes a bit longer to be ready 

so with readiness probe, we mitigate the time of unresponsiveness from the app

Readiness probes determine whether a container is ready to start accepting traffic. A Pod is considered ready when all of its containers are ready. If a container fails its readiness probe, it is removed from Service load balancers, ensuring that only healthy containers receive traffic.

types
* HTTP test - /ready (custom path)
* TCP test - example DB 
* custom command test

how do we write this on to the pod definition?

* HTTP test 

 ```yaml
    pod.yaml 
    ...
    spec: 
        containers: 
        - name: nginx
          image: nginx 
        ...
          readinessProbe: 
              httpGet:
                 path: /ready
                 port: 8080

```

* TCP test

```yaml
    pod.yaml
    ...
    spec: 
        containers:
            - name: nginx
              image: nginx
              readinessProbe: 
                tcpSocket: 
                port: 3306
```

* Custom Exec Command 

```yaml
    pod.yaml
    ...
    spec: 
    containers:
          - name: nginx
            image: nginx
            readinessProbe: 
                exec: 
                    command: 
                        - cat
                        - /app/is_ready
    ...
```

### some attributes to add to readiness probe


* *initialDelaySeconds* - how long to wait before we check readiness
* *periodSeconds*: how long to wait before re-checking
* *failureThreshold* - how many times to check before complaining
* *timeoutSeconds*: Number of seconds after which the probe times out. Defaults to 1 second. Minimum value is 1.
* *successThreshold*: Minimum consecutive successes for the probe to be considered successful after having failed. Defaults to 1. Must be 1 for liveness and startup Probes. Minimum value is 1.
* *terminationGracePeriodSeconds*: configure a grace period for the kubelet to wait between triggering a shut down of the failed container, and then forcing the container runtime to stop that container
