# liveness probe

docker : container with an app is live, app crashes, container crashes - manually restart

k8s orchestration: app crash, container crash, pod is restarted n number of times 

but what if app is not crashing, just stuck at some issue/bug, but container is running since app is not crashing 

no restart done by k8s by design because it would be oblivious

The kubelet uses liveness probes to know when to restart a container. For example, liveness probes could catch a deadlock, where an application is running, but unable to make progress. Restarting a container in such a state can help to make the application more available despite bugs.

Enter liveness probe!

a container can constantly check on the app, to make sure the app is live and ok

developer can decide what makes an app to be considered healthy

* HTTP - /path
* TCP
* custom exec command



how do we write this on to the pod definition?

* HTTP test 

 ```yaml
    pod.yaml 
    ...
    spec: 
        containers: 
          - name: nginx
            image: nginx 
            ...
            livenessProbe: 
                httpGet:
                path: /path
                port: 8080

```

* TCP test

```yaml
    pod.yaml
    ...
    spec: 
        containers:
          - name: nginx
            image: nginx
            livenessProbe: 
                tcpSocket: 
                port: 3306
```

* Custom Exec Command 

```yaml
    pod.yaml
    ...
    spec: 
    containers:
          - name: nginx
            image: nginx
            livenessProbe: 
                exec: 
                    command: 
                        - cat
                        - /path
    ...
```

### some attributes to add to liveness probe

livenessProbe.<>

* *initialDelaySeconds* - how long to wait before we check readiness
* *periodSeconds*: how long to wait before re-checking
* *failureThreshold* - how many times to check before complaining
* *timeoutSeconds*: Number of seconds after which the probe times out. Defaults to 1 second. Minimum value is 1.
* *successThreshold*: Minimum consecutive successes for the probe to be considered successful after having failed. Defaults to 1. Must be 1 for liveness and startup Probes. Minimum value is 1.
* *terminationGracePeriodSeconds*: configure a grace period for the kubelet to wait between triggering a shut down of the failed container, and then forcing the container runtime to stop that container