# startup probes

if app failed to startup - startup probe failed, the pod is restarted

Startup probes are used to identify whether a container application has successfully started. Liveness and readiness probes do not begin until the startup probe succeeds. This is useful for slow-starting containers, preventing them from being killed by the kubelet before they fully initialize.

```
        ports:
        - name: liveness-port
          containerPort: 8080
          hostPort: 8080

        livenessProbe:
        httpGet:
            path: /healthz
            port: liveness-port
        failureThreshold: 1
        periodSeconds: 10

        startupProbe:
        httpGet:
            path: /healthz
            port: liveness-port
        failureThreshold: 30
        periodSeconds: 10
```

Thanks to the startup probe, the application will have a maximum of 5 minutes (30 * 10 = 300s) to finish its startup. Once the startup probe has succeeded once, the liveness probe takes over to provide a fast response to container deadlocks. If the startup probe never succeeds, the container is killed after 300s and subject to the pod's restartPolicy

### some attributes to add to startup probe


* *initialDelaySeconds* - how long to wait before we check readiness
* *periodSeconds*: how long to wait before re-checking
* *failureThreshold* - how many times to check before complaining
* *timeoutSeconds*: Number of seconds after which the probe times out. Defaults to 1 second. Minimum value is 1.
* *successThreshold*: Minimum consecutive successes for the probe to be considered successful after having failed. Defaults to 1. Must be 1 for liveness and startup Probes. Minimum value is 1.
* *terminationGracePeriodSeconds*: configure a grace period for the kubelet to wait between triggering a shut down of the failed container, and then forcing the container runtime to stop that container