# troubleshooting

common ways to troubleshoot issues in K8s cluster

## service only picking up a few endpoints and not the others

check the labels 
selector: on the service 
and then 
labels on the endpoints

## service port mismatch 

make sure the port numbers on the pods and the services are matching 

## using ephemeral containers

Ephemeral containers are useful for interactive troubleshooting when kubectl exec is insufficient because a container has crashed or a container image doesn't include debugging utilities, such as with distroless images.
Example debugging using ephemeral containers

You can use the *kubectl debug* command to add ephemeral containers to a running Pod. First, create a pod for the example:

---
    kubectl run ephemeral-demo --image=registry.k8s.io/pause:3.1 --restart=Never
---

The examples in this section use the pause container image because it does not contain debugging utilities, but this method works with all container images.

If you attempt to use kubectl exec to create a shell you will see an error because there is no shell in this container image.

---
    kubectl exec -it ephemeral-demo -- sh

    OCI runtime exec failed: exec failed: container_linux.go:346: starting container process caused "exec: \"sh\": executable file not found in $PATH": unknown
---

You can instead add a debugging container using kubectl debug. If you specify the -i/--interactive argument, kubectl will automatically attach to the console of the Ephemeral Container.

---
    kubectl debug -it ephemeral-demo --image=busybox:1.28 --target=ephemeral-demo


    Defaulting debug container name to debugger-8xzrl.
    If you don't see a command prompt, try pressing enter.
    / #
---

This command adds a new busybox container and attaches to it. The --target parameter targets the process namespace of another container. It's necessary here because kubectl run does not enable process namespace sharing in the pod it creates.
Note: The --target parameter must be supported by the Container Runtime. When not supported, the Ephemeral Container may not be started, or it may be started with an isolated process namespace so that ps does not reveal processes in other containers.

You can view the state of the newly created ephemeral container using kubectl describe:

---
    kubectl describe pod ephemeral-demo

    ...
    Ephemeral Containers:
    debugger-8xzrl:
        Container ID:   docker://b888f9adfd15bd5739fefaa39e1df4dd3c617b9902082b1cfdc29c4028ffb2eb
        Image:          busybox
        Image ID:       docker-pullable://busybox@sha256:1828edd60c5efd34b2bf5dd3282ec0cc04d47b2ff9caa0b6d4f07a21d1c08084
        Port:           <none>
        Host Port:      <none>
        State:          Running
        Started:      Wed, 12 Feb 2020 14:25:42 +0100
        Ready:          False
        Restart Count:  0
        Environment:    <none>
        Mounts:         <none>
    ...

---

Use kubectl delete to remove the Pod when you're finished:

---
    kubectl delete pod ephemeral-demo
---

## debugging using a copy of the pod

### adding new container 

Adding a new container can be useful when your application is running but not behaving as you expect and you'd like to add additional troubleshooting utilities to the Pod.

For example, maybe your application's container images are built on busybox but you need debugging utilities not included in busybox. You can simulate this scenario using kubectl run:

---
    kubectl run myapp --image=busybox:1.28 --restart=Never -- sleep 1d
---

Run this command to create a copy of myapp named myapp-debug that adds a new Ubuntu container for debugging:

---
    kubectl debug myapp -it --image=ubuntu --share-processes --copy-to=myapp-debug

    Defaulting debug container name to debugger-w7xmf.
    If you don't see a command prompt, try pressing enter.
    root@myapp-debug:/#
---

* kubectl debug automatically generates a container name if you don't choose one using the --container flag.
* The -i flag causes kubectl debug to attach to the new container by default. You can prevent this by specifying --attach=false. If your session becomes disconnected you can reattach using kubectl attach.
* The --share-processes allows the containers in this Pod to see processes from the other containers in the Pod. For more information about how this works, see Share Process Namespace between Containers in a Pod.

### changing its command 

Sometimes it's useful to change the command for a container, for example to add a debugging flag or because the application is crashing.

To simulate a crashing application, use kubectl run to create a container that immediately exits:

---
    kubectl run --image=busybox:1.28 myapp -- false
---

You can see using kubectl describe pod myapp that this container is crashing:

---
    Containers:
    myapp:
        Image:         busybox
        ...
        Args:
        false
        State:          Waiting
        Reason:       CrashLoopBackOff
        Last State:     Terminated
        Reason:       Error
        Exit Code:    1
---

You can use kubectl debug to create a copy of this Pod with the command changed to an interactive shell:

    kubectl debug myapp -it --copy-to=myapp-debug --container=myapp -- sh

    If you don't see a command prompt, try pressing enter.
    / #

Now you have an interactive shell that you can use to perform tasks like checking filesystem paths or running the container command manually.
Note:

To change the command of a specific container you must specify its name using --container or kubectl debug will instead create a new container to run the command you specified.
The -i flag causes kubectl debug to attach to the container by default. You can prevent this by specifying --attach=false. If your session becomes disconnected you can reattach using kubectl attach.

## changing the container image

In some situations you may want to change a misbehaving Pod from its normal production container images to an image containing a debugging build or additional utilities.

As an example, create a Pod using kubectl run:

    kubectl run myapp --image=busybox:1.28 --restart=Never -- sleep 1d

Now use kubectl debug to make a copy and change its container image to ubuntu:

    kubectl debug myapp --copy-to=myapp-debug --set-image=*=ubuntu

The syntax of --set-image uses the same container_name=image syntax as kubectl set image. *=ubuntu means change the image of all containers to ubuntu.

Don't forget to clean up the debugging Pod when you're finished with it: