# network policy 

If you want to control traffic flow at the IP address or port level (OSI layer 3 or 4), then you might consider using Kubernetes NetworkPolicies for particular applications in your cluster. NetworkPolicies are an application-centric construct which allow you to specify how a pod is allowed to communicate with various network "entities" (we use the word "entity" here to avoid overloading the more common terms such as "endpoints" and "services", which have specific Kubernetes connotations) over the network. NetworkPolicies apply to a connection with a pod on one or both ends, and are not relevant to other connections.

The entities that a Pod can communicate with are identified through a combination of the following 3 identifiers:

* Other pods that are allowed (exception: a pod cannot block access to itself)
* Namespaces that are allowed
* IP blocks (exception: traffic to and from the node where a Pod is running is always allowed, regardless of the IP address of the Pod or the node)

When defining a pod- or namespace- based NetworkPolicy, you use a selector to specify what traffic is allowed to and from the Pod(s) that match the selector.

Meanwhile, when IP based NetworkPolicies are created, we define policies based on IP blocks (CIDR ranges).

## types : 

Isolation" here is not absolute, rather it means "some restrictions apply". The alternative, "non-isolated for $direction", means that no restrictions apply in the stated direction.

* **ingress:** - by defauly all ingress is allowed. unless a network policy says ingress is only allowed from specific places. 
* **egress:** - by default all egress is allowed. unless a network policy says egress is only allowed to specific places. 

For a connection from a source pod to a destination pod to be allowed, both the egress policy on the source pod and the ingress policy on the destination pod need to allow the connection. If either side does not allow the connection, it will not happen

## definition 

```yaml
    apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: NetworkPolicy
    metadata:
    name: test-network-policy
    namespace: default
    spec:
    podSelector:
        matchLabels:
        role: db
    policyTypes:
        - Ingress
        - Egress
    ingress:
        - from:
            - ipBlock:
                cidr: 172.17.0.0/16
                except:
                - 172.17.1.0/24
            - namespaceSelector:
                matchLabels:
                project: myproject
            - podSelector:
                matchLabels:
                role: frontend
          ports:
              - protocol: TCP
              port: 6379
    egress:
        - to:
            - ipBlock:
                cidr: 10.0.0.0/24
          ports:
              - protocol: TCP
              port: 5978
```

* **spec** defines the network policy 
* **spec.podSelector / spec.namespaceSelector** - determines which pods or namespaces that this network policy should apply to
* **policyTypes** - can include ingress and or egress
* **ingress** - can have a list of allowed rules
* **egress** - can have a list of allowed rules
* **ingress.from** - contains a list of rules
* **to./from.podSelector** - can be used with **to** and **from** to determine for **egress** and **ingress** respectively - select pods that have matching labels in the matchLabels. 
* **to./from.namespaceSelector** - can be used with **to** and **from** to determine for **egress** and **ingress** respectively - select namespace level that have matching labels in the matchLabels. 
* **to./from.podSelector** +  **to./from.namespaceSelector** - can be used with **to** and **from** to determine for **egress** and **ingress** respectively - select pods in that namespace that have matching labels in the matchLabels. 
* **ingress./egress.ports** - express which port the traffic that is ingress or egress needs to go to or from
* **to./from.ipBlock** - lets you specify a CIDR or a range of IPs are possibly outside the k8s cluster to reach 

### do also note how the below two are different : AND or OR

```yaml
ingress:
  - from:
      - ipBlock:
          cidr: 172.17.0.0/16
          except:
          - 172.17.1.0/24
      - namespaceSelector:
          matchLabels:
          project: myproject
      - podSelector:
          matchLabels:
          role: frontend
```
this contains three rules 
1. allow all pods in namespace project:myproject
2. allow all pods with role: frontend
3. allow and deny IPs as specified

```yaml
ingress:
  - from:
      - ipBlock:
          cidr: 172.17.0.0/16
          except:
          - 172.17.1.0/24
      - namespaceSelector:
          matchLabels:
          project: myproject
        podSelector:
          matchLabels:
          role: frontend
```
this contains two rules 
1. allow and deny IPs as specified. 
2. allow pods within namespace project:myproject AND pods with role: frontend

## default policies 

by default no policies exist, but we can setup default accept or deny all like below

### default deny all ingress
This ensures that even pods that aren't selected by any other NetworkPolicy will still be isolated for ingress.
```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: default-deny-ingress
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress
```

### default allow all ingress
no additional policy or policies can cause any incoming connection to those pods to be denied.
```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-all-ingress
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  ingress:
  - {}
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress

```
### default deny all egress
This ensures that even pods that aren't selected by any other NetworkPolicy will not be allowed egress traffic.
```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: default-deny-egress
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
```

### allow all egress
no additional policy or policies can cause any outgoing connection from those pods to be denied.
```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-all-egress
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  egress:
  - {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
```