# labels

Labels are pairs of key and value attached to objects like Pods in Kubernetes. They provide identifying attributes for objects without directly impacting the core system's functionality. Labels are useful for organizing and selecting subsets of objects. They can be added or modified anytime and allow efficient queries. Labels are valuable for UIs and CLIs, while annotations are used for non-identifying information.

Labels offer a way to structure system objects according to users' needs without enforcing strict hierarchies. They are key in managing complex entities like service deployments and batch processing pipelines. Examples of labels include "release," "environment," "tier," "partition," and "track," which help categorize objects. Label keys must be unique.

Label syntax involves key/value pairs. Valid label keys consist of an optional prefix and a required name, adhering to character rules. Prefixes are DNS subdomains if used. Prefixes like kubernetes.io/ and k8s.io/ are reserved for core components. 

Valid label value:

* must be 63 characters or less (can be empty),
* unless empty, must begin and end with an alphanumeric character ([a-z0-9A-Z]),
* could contain dashes (-), underscores (_), dots (.), and alphanumerics between.

Here's an example Pod manifest with labels:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: label-demo
  labels:
    environment: production
    app: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx:1.14.2
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
```

In this example, the Pod named "label-demo" has labels "environment: production" and "app: nginx".


labelling imperatively

  kubectl label pod pod1 region=eu
  kubectl get pod pod1 --show-labels
  
  kubectl label pod pod1  region=us --overwrite  > overriding existing value
  kubcetl get pod pod1 --show-labels

  kubectl label pod pod1  region- > removing a label called region
  kubectl get pod pod1 --show-labels 



from command line if we wanna check the pods with a specifc set of labels 

* equality based
    kubectl get pod -l env=prod --show-labels

* set-based 
    kubectl get pod -l 'env in(prod,dev)' --show-labels

* hybrid 
    kubectl get pod -l 'env in (prod,dev), app=nginx --show-labels