# selectors 

Via a label selector, the client/user can identify a set of objects. The label selector is the core grouping primitive in Kubernetes.

types : 
* equality-based - =, ==, !=
    ```
        selector:
            accelerator: nvidia-tesla-p100
    ```
* set-based - in, notin, exists
    ```
        environment in (production, qa)
        tier notin (frontend, backend)
        partition
        !partition
    ```
    The first example selects all resources with key equal to environment and value equal to production or qa.
    The second example selects all resources with key equal to tier and values other than frontend and backend, and all resources with no labels with the tier key.
    The third example selects all resources including a label with key partition; no values are checked.
    The fourth example selects all resources without a label with key partition; no values are checked.

* mixed 
    - Set-based requirements can be mixed with equality-based requirements. For example: partition in (customerA, customerB),environment!=qa.


In the case of multiple requirements, all must be satisfied so the comma separator acts as a logical AND (&&) operator.

## pods 

spec.nodeSelector: helps in identifying which node has the label and selects that 

also covered in : [nodeSelectors](/reference-notes/3%20configuration/3.9%20node%20selectors.md)

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: cuda-test
spec:
  containers:
    - name: cuda-test
      image: "registry.k8s.io/cuda-vector-add:v0.1"
      resources:
        limits:
          nvidia.com/gpu: 1
  nodeSelector:
    accelerator: nvidia-tesla-p100
```


## replicasets

For some API types, such as ReplicaSets, the label selectors of two instances must not overlap within a namespace, or the controller can see that as conflicting instructions and fail to determine how many replicas should be present.
more on [replicasets](/reference-notes/2%20core%20concepts/2.4%20replicaset.md)

spec.selector:

```yaml
selector: 
    matchLabels: 
        type: front-end
```
## other: 

Newer resources, such as Job, Deployment, ReplicaSet, and DaemonSet, support set-based requirements as well.

from command line if we wanna check the pods with a specifc set of labels 

* equality based
    kubectl get pod -l env=prod --show-labels

* set-based 
    kubectl get pod -l 'env in(prod,dev)' --show-labels

* hybrid 
    kubectl get pod -l 'env in (prod,dev), app=nginx --show-labels