# annotations

Annotations in Kubernetes are a way to add additional non-identifying metadata to objects, which can be retrieved by various tools and libraries. Metadata can be attached to Kubernetes objects using either labels or annotations. While labels help in selecting and categorizing objects, annotations are not meant for identification but can hold more complex and diverse information.

we CANNOT create pod with annotations imperatively as we do labels. yaml maniest only way

but we CAN edit annotations of a live object. 

  kubectl annotate pod pod1 name='fathima ali'
  kubectl annotate pod pod1 name='hafila' --overwrite
  kubectl annotate pod pod1 name- 

Annotations are structured as key/value maps within the object's metadata:

```json
"metadata": {
  "annotations": {
    "key1" : "value1",
    "key2" : "value2"
  }
}
```

Annotations are useful for storing various types of data, such as:

- Custom configuration information separate from default values.
- Build, release, or image details like timestamps, release IDs, and version information.
- Pointers to repositories for logging, monitoring, or analytics.
- Debugging information, such as client library or tool details.
- Provenance information or URLs of related ecosystem components.
- Special directives for modifying behavior.

Annotations follow a similar syntax as labels, with valid annotation keys having an optional prefix and a required name, conforming to certain character rules. The prefix is optional and can be a DNS subdomain. Prefixes like kubernetes.io/ and k8s.io/ are reserved for core components.

Here's an example of a Pod manifest with an annotation:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: annotations-demo
  annotations:
    imageregistry: "https://hub.docker.com/"
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx:1.14.2
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
```

In this example, the Pod named "annotations-demo" has an annotation called "imageregistry" with the value "https://hub.docker.com/".